.TH BOOTPD 1 "2009 Jul 21"
.SH NAME
bootpd \- A minimalistic, pure-Python BOOTP server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B bootpd
[options] <iface> <PXE boot filename>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bootpd
is a minimalistic BOOTP server written in Python and designed to work in
conjunction with
.BR ptftpd "(1)"
from the Python TFTP tool suite. It fully complies to the BOOTP specification
as defined in RFC951, and also supports BOOTP options defined in RFC1497.
.PP
It is extremely similar to
.BR dhcpd "(1):"
it listens on the given network interface for BOOTP requests and serves IP
addresses from the same subnet as the network segment it is listening to.
.PP
.B bootpd
also indicates to the BOOTP clients which file they should use to boot (the PXE
boot filename). This is very useful when running
.B bootpd
alongside a TFTP server capable of serving this file to the client.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
\-h, \-\-help
Display
.B bootpd
help, options and usage.
.TP
.RB \-t " TFTP_SERVER", " " \-\-tftp-server= "TFTP_SERVER"
Specify the IP address of the TFTP server, if not running on the same machine
as this BOOTP server.
.TP
.RB \-g " ROUTER", " " \-\-gateway= "ROUTER"
Specify the IP address of the default gateway for the BOOTP clients.
.TP
\-v, \-\-verbose
Be verbose.
Output information messages.
.SH SEE ALSO
dhcpd(1), ptftpd(1), pxed(1)
.SH AUTHORS
.B bootpd
was contributed by Maxime Ripard <maxime.ripard@anandra.org>, based on the work of David Anderson <dave@natulte.net> on
.BR dhcpd "(1)."
.PP
It is maintained by Maxime Petazzoni <maxime.petazzoni@bulix.org>. See the
AUTHORS file for more information.
