.TH DHCPD 1 "2009 Jul 21"
.SH NAME
dhcpd \- A minimalistic, pure-Python DHCP server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B dhcpd
[options] <iface> <PXE boot filename>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhcpd
is a minimalistic DHCP server written in Python and designed to work in
conjunction with
.BR ptftpd "(1)"
from the Python TFTP tool suite. It listens on the given network interface for DHCP requests and serves IP addresses from the same subnet as the network segment it is listening to.
.PP
.B dhcpd
also indicates to the DHCP clients which file they should use to boot (the PXE
boot filename). This is very useful when running
.B dhcpd
alongside a TFTP server capable of serving this file to the client.
.PP
If you plan to run both a DHCP server and a TFTP server
.RB ( "dhcpd" (1)
and
.BR ptftpd "(1)"
for example), it is simpler to use
.BR pxed "(1)"
which combines the two functions more elegantly.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
\-h, \-\-help
Display
.B dhcpd
help, options and usage.
.TP
.RB \-t " TFTP_SERVER", " " \-\-tftp-server= "TFTP_SERVER"
Specify the IP address of the TFTP server, if not running on the same machine
as this DHCP server.
.TP
.RB \-g " ROUTER", " " \-\-gateway= "ROUTER"
Specify the IP address of the default gateway for the DHCP clients.
.TP
\-v, \-\-verbose
Be verbose.
Output information messages.
.SH SEE ALSO
ptftpd(1), pxed(1)
.SH AUTHORS
.B dhcpd
was contributed by David Anderson <dave@natulte.net> and is maintained by
Maxime Petazzoni <maxime.petazzoni@bulix.org>. See the AUTHORS file for more
information.
