.TH PTFTP 1 "2009 Jul 17"
.SH NAME
ptftp \- A simple, pure-Python TFTP client.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B ptftp
[options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ptftp
is a simple, command-line TFTP client. Like
.BR ptftpd "(1),"
it fully complies to the TFTP protocol defined in RFC1350, and supports TFTP
extensions from RFC2347, RFC2348 and RFC2349 to the exception of the timeout
option.
.PP
.B ptftp
connects to the TFTP server via UDP on the specified port, defaulting to the
normal TFTP port 69. The transfer mode and transfer block size can also be
adjusted (see
.B OPTIONS
below for more details).
.PP
.B ptftp
supports the packet number wraparound feature, allowing for the transfer of
files of arbitrary size by resetting the packet number to 1 when it reaches the
protocol maximum of 65535 = 2^16-1. This behavior can be disabled with the
.B \-\-rfc1350
option (strict RFC1350 compliance operation).
.PP
Once started,
.B ptftp
offers an interactive command line to the user where commands to get or push
files can be issued. See the
.B COMMANDS
section below for a summary of the available commands and their usage.
.SH OPTIONS
The options may be given in any order on the command line.
.br
.TP 15
\-?, \-\-help
Display
.B ptftp
help, options and usage.
.TP
\-r, \-\-rfc1350
Force
.B ptftp
to run in strict RFC1350 mode.
Disables all TFTP extensions and options support from RFC2347, RFC2348 and
RFC2349, as well as the packet number wraparound feature.
.TP
.RB \-h " HOST", " " \-\-host= "HOST"
Specify the TFTP server to connect to.
.TP
.RB \-p " PORT", " " \-\-port= "PORT"
Specify the port to use when connecting to the TFTP server.
.TP
.RB \-m " MODE", " " \-\-mode= "MODE"
Set the TFTP transfer mode (defaults to 'octet'). It must be one of 'netascii'
or 'octet'.
.TP
.RB \-b " BLKSIZE", " " \-\-blksize= "BLKSIZE"
Set the transfer block size (defaults to 1400 bytes). Very low values have a
dramatic effect on transfer performance as it forces TFTP packet fragmentation.
.SH COMMANDS
When started,
.B ptftp
will present a prompt to the user:
.PP
	tftp>
.PP
A few commands to operate the TFTP client are available:
.PP
.TP 12
?, help
Display the in-program help.
.TP
q, quit
Quit the TFTP client.
.TP
.RB m, " " mode " [newmode]"
Display or change the transfer mode to
.BR newmode "."
.TP
.RB b, " " blksize " [newsize]"
Display or change the transfer block size to
.BR newsize "."
.TP
.RB g, " " get " " [-f] " filename"
Get
.B filename
from the server. Use "-f" to overwrite a potentially existing local file.
The received data is written into a temporary file that is only moved
to a local file where ptftp is executed if the transfer completed
successfully, thus avoiding loosing the content of a previous file of
the same name if the transfer fails or is interrupted.
.TP
.RB p, " " put " filename"
Push
.B filename
to the server.
.SH SEE ALSO
ptftp(1)
.SH AUTHORS
.B ptftpd
is written and maintained by Maxime Petazzoni <maxime.petazzoni@bulix.org>,
with help from a few others. See the AUTHORS file for more information.
