.TH PTFTPD 1 "2009 Jul 17"
.SH NAME
ptftpd \- A full-featured, pure-Python TFTP server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B ptftpd
[options] <TFTP root>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ptftpd
is a TFTP server entirely written in Python. It is fully compliant
with the TFTP (Trivial File Transfer Protocol) as defined in RFC1350. It also
supports TFTP extensions defined in RFC2347, RFC2348 and RFC2349, to the
exception of the timeout option only.
.PP
.B ptftpd
serves the given TFTP root directory to clients connecting to its listening
port (defaults to the standard TFTP port UDP 69). It supports reads (RRQ) and
writes (WRQ) in both netascii and octet mode and obviously complies to whatever
directory and file permissions in the given TFTP root.
.PP
.B ptftpd
is able to serve files of arbitrary size using the packet number wraparound
feature (reset of the DATA packet number when it reaches the protocol maximum
of 65535 = 2^16-1), but the client must support it. This behavior can be
disabled by the
.B \-\-rfc1350
option (strict RFC1350 compliance operation).
.PP
.B ptftpd
also treats the TFTP root as a jail, and will make sure no operation is
attempted to access files outside the TFTP root directory.
.SH OPTIONS
The options may be given in any order, but the TFTP server's root directory
must be specified last on the command line.
.br
.TP 15
\-h, \-\-help
Display
.B ptftpd
help, options and usage.
.TP
\-r, \-\-rfc1350
Force
.B ptftpd
to run in strict RFC1350 mode.
Disables all TFTP extensions and options support from RFC2347, RFC2348 and
RFC2349, as well as the packet number wraparound feature (reset of the DATA
packet number to 1 when it reaches the maximum packet number 65536).
.TP
.RB \-p " PORT", " " \-\-port= "PORT"
Set the port
.B ptftpd
listens for TFTP requests on.
.TP
\-v, \-\-verbose
Be verbose. Output information messages.
.TP
\-D, \-\-debug
Be even more verbose. Output debugging information.
.SH SEE ALSO
ptftp(1)
.SH AUTHORS
.B ptftpd
is written and maintained by Maxime Petazzoni <maxime.petazzoni@bulix.org>,
with help from a few others. See the AUTHORS file for more information.
